# Assignment 01

Goal: Server is up and running with the included express npm module

## Create the web server

Use the code from the socket.io web site to setup a basic web server in a file called `web.js` with the contents below.

```js
var app = require('express')()
  , server = require('http').createServer(app)
  , io = require('socket.io').listen(server);

server.listen(5000);

app.get('/', function (req, res) {
  res.sendfile(__dirname + '/index.html');
});

io.sockets.on('connection', function (socket) {
  socket.emit('/status', { message: 'You are connected to the conversation.' });
  socket.on('/msg', function (data) {
    console.log(data);
  });
});

console.log('Server is up and running on port 5000!');
```

The `server.listen(5000)` means that this web server will listen on TCP port 5000. You can access your server from a web browser using the url `http://localhost:5000`.

## Start the web server

Fire up your web server from your Node.js command prompt:

```bash
node web.js
```

When it has started up completely you will see a message in your console: `Server is up and running on port 5000!`.

## Create the client web page

Create the client web page, `index.html`:

```html
<script src="/socket.io/socket.io.js"></script>
<script>
  var host = location.origin;
  var socket = io.connect(host);
  socket.on('/status', function (data) {
    console.log(data);
    socket.emit('/msg', { message: 'Hello from the client.' });
  });
</script>
```

## Load your client web page in a browser

Any requests to `http://localhost:5000` will be handled by the line from your server containing `app.get('/')`. Load the client page in your browser by pointing it to `http://localhost:5000`.

Make sure your browser's JavaScript console is open! When the page loads your console will contain a message from the server that was sent from the server's `connection` event.

```js
{ message: 'You are connected to the conversation.' }
```

Now, look at your Node.js command window. The client web page sends a message back to the server immediately after receiving the connection message from the server. Your server's command window should contain:

```
Hello from the client.
```

## Review

1. What line in the `web.js` file sent the message to the client web page?
2. What line in the `index.html` file sent the message back to the server?
3. What verb (method name) is used with the `socket` object to send the messages?


## You try!

Create another server side handler, `/private` to receive a message from the client. Make sure your handler will spit out a message to the console, like this:

```js
socket.on('/private', function (data) {
  console.log(data);
});
```

Send a message to the server using your browser's JavaScript console. Your client html file (`index.html`) declares a global variable called `socket`. In your JavaScript console, you can interact with that variable. Try this:

```js
socket.emit('/private', 'Here is a new message from the client.')
```